# Spark on Amazon EMR + Terraform 
An example Terraform project that will configure a Secure and Customizable 
Spark Cluster on Amazon EMR (EMR).  Zeppelin is also installed as an interface
to Spark, and Ganglia is also installed for monitoring.

## Features

This project gives an example of extending the base functionality of Amazon EMR
to provide a more secure (and potentially compliant) working environment for 
running Spark workloads on Amazon EMR.

### At-Rest Encryption

There's two places in this project where data is stored: in Amazon S3 and in
Hadoop HDFS, running on the EMR nodes.

Amazon S3 buckets are configured with [AES-256 encryption](modules/s3/main.tf#L30-L36),
using your Amazon account's default encryption key.  A custom KMS key could be
used if desired.

Hadoop HDFS is configured to use EMR's [Security Configuration](modules/emr/templates/security_configuration.json.tpl#L13-L16)
which will configure the EMR nodes to enable LUKS to encrypt the data on the
EBS volumes using an custom KMS Encryption Key.

### In-Flight Encryption

This project will create [self-signed certificates](modules/sec/certs.tf#L9-L28)
to demonstrate in-flight encryption.  The certificates are used in three places:
 - Inter-Node Communication: configured using EMR's [Security Configuration](modules/emr/templates/security_configuration.json.tpl#L3-L8)
 - Load-Balancer to Zeppelin Communication: configured by placing a self-signed
   certificate in the [Java Keystore](modules/bootstrap/templates/configure-system.sh.tpl#L36-L40),
   and [instructing Zeppelin](modules/emr/templates/configuration.json.tpl#L12-L14)
   to use that certificate.
 - Internet to Load Balancer Communcation: configured by placing a self-signed
   certificate into [Amazon IAM](modules/sec/certs.tf#L71-L75) and configuring 
   the Load Balancer to [use that certificate](modules/lb/main.tf#L41).

Ideally, you or your organization would swap out a self-signed certificate for
a certificate generated by a trusted certificate authority.

### Auditing

It is important to track who accesses which data and when.  This project 
demonstrates this in a couple ways:
 - Zeppelin Logging: A [log4j configuration](modules/bootstrap/files/log4j_zeppelin.properties)
   is placed on the system to log actions against Zeppelin.
 - S3 Bucket Logging: A [second bucket](modules/s3/main.tf#L1-L16) is created
   to track object access (gets/puts/deletes) to the main S3 bucket.

### Identity

This project also provides an example of how to instrument identity with
Zeppelin.  

Zeppelin employs Shiro.  By providing a [shiro.ini](modules/bootstrap/templates/shiro.ini.tpl) 
file, Zeppelin can have a user database.  This project employs a basic example 
by hard-coding usernames and passwords into the file, but it could be extended 
to connect to an [LDAP server](https://zeppelin.apache.org/docs/latest/security/shiroauthentication.html) 
or potentially another Identity Service.

#### Infrastructure As Code

Having your infrastructure represented "as code" means that you can use
standard code review practices and continuous integration methodologies to
make changes to your infrastructure.  Under the Apache 2.0 License, you are 
welcome to fork this repository and customize it to you or your organization's
needs.

By tracking what changes are made and by who and when, you can easily audit
and control changes to your infrastructure.

## Architecture

This project leverages [Terraform Modules](https://www.terraform.io/docs/modules/index.html), 
and relies heavily on the [EMR Cluster](https://www.terraform.io/docs/providers/aws/r/emr_cluster.html) 
resource.

The layout of this project is as follows:

```
main.tf      --> The main terraform files, this includes the modules listed below
config.tf    --> General Terraform configuration, versions, etc.
variables.tf --> Variables needed for Terraform to execute, which also includes
                 defaults
outputs.tf   --> The output of the ELB's address for the Master Node
modules/
    bootstrap/  
        --> This module copies files to S3 so EMR can run a script right after
            the EC2 instances are provisioned
    emr/
        --> This module creates the EMR cluster and configuration files
    lb/
        --> This module creates a Load Balancer so Zepplein is accessible from
            your system
    s3/
        --> This module creates S3 buckets needed by EMR
    sec/
        --> This module creates some Security Fundamentals needed by EMR.
            NOTE: Please DO NOT USE THIS in production, its in place purely 
            for demonstrative purposes.  See "Security Module" below.
    sgs/
        --> This module creates the Security Groups needed for EMR and the Load
            Balancers.
```

## Building
Before building, ensure you're comfortable with [how terraform works](https://www.terraform.io/intro/index.html).

### Pre-Requisities
Terraform will use the AWS credentials provided in your shell environment.  You
will need an AWS user account available that has the following permissions:
 - View/Create/Update/Delete IAM, KMS, and Certificates
 - View/Create/Update/Delete S3 Buckets and Objects
 - View/Create/Update/Delete Security Groups
 - View/Create/Update/Delete Load Balancers
 - View VPC Subnets

### Initalization

Before executing your first plan, you need to initialize Terraform:
```
$> terraform init
```

### Planning

Terraform allows you to "Plan", which allows you to see what it would change
without actually making any changes.

```
$> terraform plan -var 'vpc_id=vpc-abcde123' -var 'cluster_name=my_emr_cluster_1' 
```

### Applying

Finally, affer initialization, planning, you can apply your chages, which will
actaully create or update your cluster, based on the plan:

```
$> terraform apply -var 'vpc_id=vpc-abcde123' -var 'cluster_name=my_emr_cluster_1'
```

### Destroying

If you want Terraform to clean up anything it made, you can destroy the
cluster:

```
$> terraform destroy -var 'vpc_id=vpc-abcde123' -var 'cluster_name=my_emr_cluster_1'
```

## Security Module

This project provides a [Security Module](modules/sec) that is intendended to
be replaced with the security requirements of your organization.  PLEASE DO NOT
use this Security Module in production.  It is there for demonstrative purposes
only, but can be a guide on what needs to be replaced to use this project in
production.


It provides bootstrapping for the following:
 - IAM Roles
   - Three IAM roles are created, one for EMR to create infrastructure, a
     role (instance profile) to attach to each one of the EC2 instances, and a
     role for EMR to use for autoscaling.
 - Network
   - Whitelisting: Instead of opening your EMR cluster to the world, this
     module will look up your public IP using `ifconfig.co` and adding that
     IP to a few security groups (SSH for the Nodes and HTTPS for the LB)
   - Subnets: This module will fetch all subnets in the VPC provided as a 
     variable, it will spin up EMR in the first, and it will attach the LB
     to the rest.  You will likely want to specify which subnets to use for 
     both.
  - SSH
    - It will create and save a SSH key to connect to the cluster.  The private
    SSH key is saved in `generated/ssh/`.
  - Zeppelin
    - Zeppelin is equipped with a Load Balancer for (easier) access.  It also
      is equipped with a Self-Signed Certificate for encrypted communication
      between the ELB and the Zeppelin process, and another Self-Signed 
      Certifcate for the Internet.  You should not use Self-Signed Certificates
      in Production, and switch these out with valid certificates.

## FAQs

### I've changed something in `bootstrap`, why didn't that get applied?

Terraform isn't the best at tracking changes to resources in the `bootstrap`
module.  Sometimes you have to let Terraform know you need to destroy and 
recreate the EMR cluster by executing the following command:

```
$> terraform taint -var 'vpc_id=vpc-abcde123' -var 'cluster_name=my_emr_cluster_1' -module=emr aws_emr_cluster.cluster
$> terraform apply -var 'vpc_id=vpc-abcde123' -var 'cluster_name=my_emr_cluster_1'
```

### I want this to run in another region, what do I do?

Currently this project is hard-coded to run in AWS US-West-2 (Oregon), and
there are two things you have to change to make it run in another region:
 - [Default Region](variables.tf#L4)
   - Change this to match the name of the region you'd like to use
 - [SNS Source IPs](variables.tf#L8)
   - Change this list to make it match the [Source IPs](https://forums.aws.amazon.com/ann.jspa?annID=2347)
     of Amazon SNS in the region you'd like to use.

### How do I login to Zeppelin?

After the cluster builds, it will output the DNS Name of the Load Balancer that
was created:

```
$> terraform apply...
...
Outputs:

dns_name = my_emr_cluster_1-default-1234567890.us-west-2.elb.amazonaws.com
```

You can navigate to `https://my_emr_cluster_1-default-1234567890.us-west-2.elb.amazonaws.com` 
in your browser.  You will have to ignore the certificate warning, since this
example project creates self-signed SSL certs for demonstrative purposes.

Finally you can find the Username and Password for Zepplein, hard-coded in the
[Shiro Configuration File](modules/bootstrap/templates/shiro.ini.tpl#L2-L3).

NOTE: Please DO NOT hard code your Usernames and Passwords for Zeppelin in
production, or check them into Git.  This is in place purely for demonstrative 
purposes.  Zeppelin offers a few [Authentication Options](https://zeppelin.apache.org/docs/latest/security/shiroauthentication.html).

### How do I SSH into this cluster?

For demonstrative purposes, SSH is allowed to the public IP of the system that
runs Terraform.

Also, this project will create an SSH key to connecto to the cluster.  After
Terraform is applied, the SSH key generated is placed in the `generated/` 
folder, so you can SSH into the cluster with the following command:

```
$> ssh -i generated/ssh/my_emr_cluster_1-default ip_address_of_a_node
```

AWS also provides additional SSH connection help in the [EMR Console](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/elasticmapreduce/home)

### The Terraform state file is saved locally, how do I share that with others?

It is recommended to use [Terraform Remote State](https://www.terraform.io/docs/state/remote.html)

### The cluster failed to create, where do I find logs?

 - First, navigate to [EMR Console](https://us-west-2.console.aws.amazon.com/elasticmapreduce/home)
 - Locate your cluster, it should be named after your `cluster_name` and `region`, 
   e.g. `my_emr_cluster1-us-west-2`
 - Second, there are logs in the S3 bucket created, under `logs/`
   - There's a shortcut in the UI to find the log directory, click on the the
     folder icon near `Log URI:`

### How do I test that everything is working?

 - You can visit the Zeppelin UI (See the "How do I login to Zeppelin?" FAQ above)
 - Second, follow the [Apache Zeppelin Tutorial](https://zeppelin.apache.org/docs/0.6.1/quickstart/tutorial.html)

# Author

Christian Nuss

Collective Health SRE

https://github.com/cnuss

## Copyright, License & Disclaimers

Copyright 2018 Collective Health, Inc

This project is available under the [ApacheV2][] License. Please see LICENSE file. 

[ApacheV2]: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html
